# Return Types

So PHP 7 added scalar type and it's cool, but it also added return types, which didn't exist at all, even for objects. The ability to say that this method returns a string or an object, and it's just as cool.

So in our control, let's fix our code first. We'll say genus, air set, name octopus and now I'm going to actually print out genus, arrow, get name, down here because I want to add a return type to get name. We know that this should return a string but right now, technically, you can return anything. Like, what if we did some logic inside of here and somehow we accidentally returned five. Well, not surprisingly, right now, the way PHP works, that's going to return the integer five. So we have a get name method that should be a string but is instead returning an integer, lame.

So, to add a return type after the method you say colon and then you say the type, string, and of course that could also be a class name. And you can immediately see PHP storm is angry and if you refresh PHP itself, it is super angry. Type error, return value of get name must be of the type string, integer returned. Now, here's the interesting thing, remember with scalar type hinting there's weak mode verses strict mode and the same exists for return types. What I mean is that, if we went into weak mode then instead of throwing an error, it would just try to turn the number ... the integer five, into a string. But here's the trick, in this case, they use strict, that's important because strict types, that's important, is the one on genus. If you remove the declare script types on genus and then refresh, it works.

Now that seems weird at first, since last time it was the controller one. I'll put that back. It actually does make sense. You need to have strict types whenever the value is being controlled. In this case, the value ... the return value of get name is something that we are calculating inside of genus so because we have strict types inside of genus, it's requiring us to write code to create the right type. Where as with set name the value is being created outside of this class inside of genus controller, so the strict typing is added there. I know, it's a little weird at first.

So inside genus, let's fix this by saying this arrow name, like normal and when we do that, life is good. But what if we hadn't set a name yet? By default, name is just null. So would this cause an error because technically we're returning null, not a string? The answer is, yeah, and that's really annoying. That's where nullable types become important.

