# Void Types

There's one last feature with return types, and that is void return types. So setFunFact, it's a function. It just doesn't return anything. If we want we can advertise that with :void. That is pretty straight froward. It just literally means this doesn't return anything. And not surprisingly, when we refresh we don't get an error because we are not returning anything. Now, if for example we're trying to return null, that actually will not work because we're in strict type.

Actually strict type doesn't matter. When your return type is void, it literally means you do not return anything, returning any value. Even null is not allowed. So void is not that important. It's useful because A, it advertises to your users not to expect any return value, and it also just makes sure that you don't do something silly and accidentally add a return value. You are allowed to use the return statement, however. That is totally allowed.

All right. So we know everything about scalar type hints and return types. So let's update everything inside of Genus to use that. So starting with getId, this is going to return an int but it is null, well, because it will be null first. getName, same thing, actually should be null. setName, it's up to you but I'm going to allow null to be parsed to setName. But in your application, this is actually a good opportunity to throw an error perhaps if you want to make sure that null is never set to null.

If name is never set to null. And of course, this is going to return void. If we get SubFamily, that was easy. It's going to return SubFamily but it is null. Now, the cool part about this is we don't need the PHP doc anymore. We have a return type. It's better than the PHP doc. It will definitely return a SubFamily not just probably. Now, in setSubFamily, let's make that return type of void. Notice here we have SubFamily = null. If we wanted to we could make that a nullable type by saying ?SubFamily and then removing the = null.

Then it would be a required argument but null would be valid. That's really cool. All right. Let's keep going. getSpeciesCount, that's a nullable int. setSpeciesCount, make that argument a nullable int and it returns void. getFunFact and setFunFact to find. getUpdatedAt, we're going to have this return a nullable DateTimeInterface. That's null at first. Now, notice I'm returning a DateTime, so why DateTimeInterface? Well, it's up to you. If I set the return type to DateTime, then I'm going to need to write my code internally to always returning DateTime.

If later I want to return a DateTimeImmutable, then that would violate my type int, my return type. So in reality, we just want this method to return DateTimeInterface, and that's going to allow us internally to update DateTime or DateTimeImmutable. It's whatever you need to advertise. All right, for setIsPublished, let's make that a bool not nullable, have it return void. getIsPublished will definitely then return a bool. This is important because up in the property we actually gave it a default value so it will never be null. And you get GenusNote another return type, a Collection from Doctrine and Common.

And then update the PHP doc to match that. Return type of Collection. Now there's two interesting things. First of all, Array Collection implements Collection. So again, I'm just choosing whether or not I want to set our return type to be more specific Array Collection or just be Interface Collection. I'll choose Collection. Second thing is, it will actually be a collection of GenusNote objects. There's no way to denote that with the return type. So I'm still keeping the pipe GenusNote[]. So then when I call getNotes, if I iterate over it, my editor will know that each item in the collection is a GenusNote object and that will give me auto completion.

So you're not going to entirely remove your At returns. All right, getFirstDiscoveredAt, that's going to be a nullable DateTimeInterface. setFirstDiscoveredAt will be a void return type. getSlug will be a nullable string, setSlug will be a nullable string type, have it return void. addGenusScientists will return void, removeGenusScientist, the same. And then, getGenusScientists, like before, I'm going to make this return a Collection and then update to PHP doc. And then, same down here, getExpertScientists Collection. Then this actually already advertises correctly. I'll just shorten that type int.

So you can see that it makes our class a lot tighter. It's a lot more readable but also is extra work. The cool thing is you have the power to add return types or target your argument where it makes sense, but you don't necessarily need to do it everywhere. It was a lot of changes so let's actually make sure that this works. I'm going to go to my browser and I'm going to go to /admin/genus. So I'm actually doing /genus/new which is a little endpoint that actually just creates a Genus behind the scene.

So apparently, we can still create Genuses. You can click that. It will take me to the Genus show page. And then, we can actually log in with weaverryan+1@gmail.com. Password, iliketurtles. And when we do that, we can edit our Genus. And let's change the number of species to 5,000, keep the fun fact empty, and change the name, hit enter, and everything still works.

